mbursement for certain COVID-19 molecular tests making use of high-throughput technologies developed by the private sector that allow for increased testing capacity, faster results, and more effective means of combatting the spread of the virus to $100 per test, effective April 14, 2020 through the duration of the COVID-19 national emergency. If the current public h

--- Quarter 3 (filed 2020-10-23) ---
Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business ("DIS") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks ("IDNs"), health plans, employers and accountable care organizations ("ACOs"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up over 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Management utilizes requisition data to assist with assessing the growth of the business. Therefore, we believe that the change in the number of requisitions from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess our growth. Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e. unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management utilizes revenue per requisition data in order to assist with assessing various factors impacting the performance of the business, including pricing and trends impacting mix. Therefore, we believe that the change in this metric from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess such factors, which are relevant to assessing the revenue performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions ("DS") businesses, which represents the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Third Quarter Highlights Our total net revenues of $2.79 billion were up 42.5% from the prior year period. In DIS: Revenues of $2.71 billion increased by 44.3% compared to the prior year period, driven by demand for COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing, and, to a lesser extent, the impact of recent acquisitions, partially offset by a decline in testing volume in our base business (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing). Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, increased by 19.7% compared to the prior year period, with organic growth (which excludes the impact of recent acquisitions) and acquisitions contributing approximately 16.6% and 3.1%, respectively. Organic volume growth was driven by demand for COVID-19 molecular testing, partially offset by declines in testing volumes in the base business. Testing volumes in the base business were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and declined by 5% compared to the prior year period. Revenue per requisition increased by 20.9% compared to the prior year period driven, in large part, by COVID-19 molecular testing. DS revenues of $77 million decreased by 1.9% compared to the prior year period. Income from continuing operations attributable to Quest Diagnostics' stockholders was $568 million, or $4.14 per diluted share, in 2020, compared to $215 million, or $1.56 per diluted share, in the prior year period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $1,464 million, compared to $895 million in the prior year period. 30 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing more than 200,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 200,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. We have put preparedness plans in place at our facilities to maintain continuity of operations, while also taking steps to keep colleagues and customers healthy and safe. In line with recommendations to reduce large gatherings and increase social distancing, many of our office-based colleagues are working in a remote environment. We are evaluating the best way to bring them back into the office. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volumes compared to the prior year period. However, in March and April 2020, we experienced a material decline in testing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the last two weeks of March, volumes declined in excess of 40% compared to the prior year period, inclusive of COVID-19 testing, which continued in April with volume declines in the range of 50 to 60% compared to the prior year period as government policies were implemented to reduce the transmission of COVID-19. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volumes (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing), which continued in the third quarter of 2020. Additionally, beginning during the second quarter, we experienced growing demand for COVID-19 testing services and have expanded our capacity in order to satisfy such demand. Volumes in our base business for the second and third quarters of 2020 decreased approximately 34% and 5%, respectively, compared to the prior year periods. The decrease in base testing volumes was driven by federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 which have resulted in, among other things, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home policies, all of which have had, and we believe will continue to have, an impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows, including continued declines in base testing volumes. It is also possible that we will experience an impact on cash collections as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. During the second quarter of 2020, the decrease in base t