uration of the COVID-19 pandemic; healthcare insurer, government, and client payer reimbursement rates for COVID-19 molecular testing; the COVID-19 pandemic s impact on the U.S. healthcare system and the U.S. economy; and the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local governmental responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. We may also be impacted by changes in the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic at different times in the various c

--- Quarter 5 (filed 2021-07-23) ---
Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business ("DIS") provides information and insights based on an industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks ("IDNs"), health plans, employers, accountable care organizations ("ACOs"), and direct contract entities ("DCEs"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up greater than 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e., unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management uses number of requisitions and revenue per requisition data to assist with assessing the growth and performance of the business, including understanding trends affecting number of requisitions, pricing and test mix. Therefore, we believe that information related to changes in these metrics from period to period are useful information for investors as it allows them to assess the performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions ("DS") businesses, which represent the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we offer a variety of solutions for life insurers and healthcare organizations and clinicians. We are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry. In addition, we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Second Quarter Highlights Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 2020 (dollars in millions, except per share data) Net revenues $2,550 $1,827 DIS revenues $2,474 $1,764 Revenue per requisition change (3.6)% 15.3% Requisition volume change 45.2% (17.7)% Organic requisition volume change 40.1% (18.2)% DS revenues $76 $63 Net income attributable to Quest Diagnostics $631 $185 Diluted earnings per share $4.96 $1.36 Net cash provided by operating activities $460 $355 For further discussion of the year-over-year changes for the three months ended June 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2020, see Results of Operations below. 23 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) continues to impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing approximately 300,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 350,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. During 2020 and the first half of 2021, our testing volume and revenues were materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volume compared to the prior year period. However, in March 2020, we experienced a material decline in testing volume due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volume (which excludes COVID-19 testing), which continued in the second half of 2020 and the first half of 2021 driven by people returning to the healthcare system as well as contributions from new Professional Laboratory Services offerings. For the first and second quarters of 2021, our base testing volume, excluding volume associated with recent acquisitions, was 2.8% below and 1.9% above our historical first and second quarter of 2019 levels, respectively. Recent agreements associated with our Professional Laboratory Services offerings contributed 5.2% and 5.8% volume growth compared to 2019 for the first and second quarters of 2021, respectively. Unless there is a change in the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that there will be a continued return to healthcare throughout 2021 with, in some cases, patients pursuing care delayed during the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease in base testing volume was driven by federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home policies, all of which have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Beginning during the second quarter of 2020, we experienced growing demand for COVID-19 testing services and we expanded our capacity throughout 2020 in order to satisfy the demand, which has had a significant impact on our testing volumes. Since the fourth quarter of 2020, demand for COVID-19 testing has decreased reflecting an industry-wide trend. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2020, our net revenues associated with COVID-19 testing in the first and second quarters of 2021 declined by 27.9% and 55.7%, respectively. Given the significant progress of vaccinations in the U.S., we continue to expect a decline in demand for COVID-19 molecular testing in the second half of 2021. Additionally, our revenue per requisition has been positively impacted by COVID-19 molecular testing. In April 2020 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") announced that it would increase the reimbursement for certain COVID-19 molecular tests making use of high-throughput technologies developed by the private sector that allow for increased testing capacity, faster results, and more effective means of combating the spread of the virus to $100 per test, effective April 14, 2020. Beginning January 1, 2021, Medicare changed the base reimbursement rate for COVID-19 diagnostic tests run on high-throughput technologies to $75 per test with an additional payment of $25 per test if the laboratory (1) completes the test