tion. RISKS RELATED TO CHANGE IN PUBLIC POLICY AND THE REGULATORY AND LEGAL ENVIRONMENT We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. Our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. While we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the FDA; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. 35 Table of Contents These laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected. We regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. We also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. The federal and state governments continue aggressive enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantial funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. In addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; increases to our administrative, billing or other operating costs; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreases to the amount of reimbursement related to diagnostic information services performed; adverse affects to important business relationships with third parties; decreased demand for our services; and/or injury to our reputation. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such changes also could require us to modify our business objectives. Our b

PRIOR YEAR 10-K RISK FACTORS (Item 1A, filed 2020-02-20):
Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. Our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. This Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. See Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results on page 37 . 28 Table of Contents The U.S. healthcare system is evolving and medical laboratory testing market fundamentals are changing, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. The U.S. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to the ACA. The ACA established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. The ACA provided for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The ACA also permits the establishment of ACOs. Certain aspects of the ACA have been repealed, delayed or modified. The scope and timing of any further legislation to repeal, amend, replace, or reform the rest of the ACA is uncertain, but if such legislation were to become law, it could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare system. In addition, uncertainty regarding the status of the ACA prior to any such repeal, amendment, replacement or reform could create uncertainty generally in the healthcare market. Several federal courts have recently issued determinations that portions of the ACA are unconstitutional; those rulings are net yet final. Uncertainty about court rulings regarding the ACA could add to uncertainty in the healthcare market. Significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading The Clinical Testing Industry , beginning on page 13 . For example, value-based reimbursement is increasing ( e.g ., UnitedHealthcare's Preferred Lab Network); CMS has set goals for value-based reimbursement to be achieved. Patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased responsibility for payment for, their healthcare. Healthcare industry participants are evolving and consolidating. Healthcare services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers ( e.g ., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues ( e.g. , retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies ( e.g. , telemedicine, digital pathology). Utilization of the healthcare system is being influenced by several factors and may result in a decline in the demand for diagnostic information services. In addition, we believe that clinical testing market fundamentals are changing. We believe that PAMA-driven reimbursement pressure is negatively impacting access to care and hurting the clinical testing industry, and remains a catalyst for structural change in the market. We als