o believe that our expanded health plan network access and increased health plan focus on driving better value in laboratory testing services will reduce variation in spending on these services. We also believe that ongoing consumerization in healthcare, with increased cost being borne by consumers, is sharpening focus on price disparities. We expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. The clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. We primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. We also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. Hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). In addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. Hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians and encourage the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. As a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community clinicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. In addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. In recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, increasing the percentage of physician practices owned by hospitals. Increased hospital ownership of physician practices may enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. The formation of ACOs and IDNs, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services. The diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. Competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. Digital pathology, still in an emerging state, is an example of this. Competitors also may compete on the basis of new service offerings. Competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. 29 Table of Contents Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. We face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. One example of this is increased use of prior authorization requirements. We expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. Pursuant to PAMA, CMS promulgated revised reimbursement rate schedules for 2018 - 2020 for clinical laboratory testing services provided under Medicare. Reimbursement rates for many clinical laboratory tests were reduced in 2018 and 2019 and are scheduled to be reduced again by approximately 10% in 2020 (rates, and reductions, vary by test). PAMA calls for further revision of the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule for years after 2020, based on future surveys of market rates; reimbursement rate reduction from 2021-23 is capped by PAMA at 15% annually. In late 2019, the LAB Act became law. The LAB Act provides an opportunity for reforms to PAMA by delaying PAMA's next data collection and reporting period until January 1, 2021 and by ordering a study to determine ways to improve future collection of more representative market rate data under PAMA. In addition, CMS has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. We also provide physician services that are reimbursed by Medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. The ACA includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. In addition, over the last several years, the federal government has expanded its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries, called Medicare Advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. There has been growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. States have mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. In addition, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions. From time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. Congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives. These initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. Health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. We face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. Examples include increased use of prior authorization requirements and increased denial of coverage for services. Since the passage of ACA, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. We expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services. ACOs and IDNs also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. The healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. These health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. Some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and requiring preauthorization of certain testing. There are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. The increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and ba