by ordering a study to determine ways to improve future collection of more representative market rate data under PAMA. The CARES Act, adopted in early 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, suspended the PAMA price cuts that had been scheduled for 2021 and delayed PAMA's next data collection and reporting period until January 1, 2022. 33 Table of Contents In addition, CMS has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. We also provide physician services that are reimbursed by Medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. The ACA includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. In addition, over the last several years, the federal government has expanded its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries, called Medicare Advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. There has been growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. States have mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. In addition, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions. From time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. Congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives. These initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. Health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. We face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. Examples include increased use of prior authorization requirements and increased denial of coverage for services. Since the passage of ACA, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. We expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services. ACOs, DCEs and IDNs also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. The healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. These health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. Some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and requiring preauthorization of certain testing. There are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. The increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. Government payers and third parties, including health plans, may establish reimbursement levels that do not properly recognize the value of new and innovative solutions. Government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer. In response to requests from payers to have a strategy to report a single or at most a few codes to describe procedures used to perform molecular and toxicology testing, the American Medical Association CPT Editorial Panel has established and replaced billing codes used to report those procedures. The adoption of these revised codes has resulted in limited coverage decisions on certain occasions, new requirements for documentation to facilitate payment from certain payers and increased payment denials. While some payers have adopted the new payment methods, others have not yet modified their systems and ask that laboratories continue to report their services using the previous reporting strategies, when those codes still exist. These steps may discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer. Failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. 34 Table of Contents The diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our solutions or operate our business or increase our costs. In addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. Our success in continuing to introduce new solutions, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. We may be unable to develop or introduce new solutions or services. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be performing, that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. We also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. If we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new solutions, technology and services to expand our advanced testing capabilities, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition. Failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the appropriate standard of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. The provision of diagnostic information services involves certain inherent risks. The services that we provide are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. Negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputa