rgaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. Government payers and third parties, including health plans, may not recognize the value of, or compensate or reimburse us for, new and innovative solutions. 30 Table of Contents Government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer. In response to requests from payers to have a strategy to report a single or at most a few codes to describe procedures used to perform molecular and toxicology testing, the American Medical Association CPT Editorial Panel has established and replaced billing codes used to report those procedures. The adoption of these revised codes has resulted in limited coverage decisions on certain occasions, new requirements for documentation to facilitate payment from certain payers and increased payment denials. While some payers have adopted the new payment methods, others have not yet modified their systems and ask that laboratories continue to report their services using the previous reporting strategies, when those codes still exist. These steps may discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer. Our business operations and reputation may be materially impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. In our business, we collect, generate, process or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. If we do use or not adequately safeguard that information in compliance with applicable requirements under federal, state and international laws, or if it were disclosed to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be materially impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. In the event of a data security breach, we may be subject to notification obligations, litigation and governmental investigation or sanctions, and may suffer reputational damage, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We are subject to laws and regulations regarding protecting the security and privacy of certain healthcare and personal information, including: (a) the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the regulations thereunder, which establish (i) a complex regulatory framework including requirements for safeguarding protected health information and (ii) comprehensive federal standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information; (b) state laws, including the California Consumer Privacy Act; and (c) the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation. Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. It is important that we continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of steps taken by government payers and health insurers to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. Business development activities are inherently risky and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult. We plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing arrangements, investments and alliances. However, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. Moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. The success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. Further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. Acquisitions are not all the same ( e.g. , asset acquisitions differ from acquisitions of equity interests); different acquisitions offer different risks. Acquisitions may involve the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of assets or businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired businesses, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. The process of combining acquisitions may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our Company has historically provided; 31 Table of Contents diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our Company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. If we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other assets or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. Our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. While we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the FDA; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. These laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental hea