. Management utilizes requisition data to assist with assessing the growth of the business. Therefore, we believe that the change in the number of requisitions from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess our growth. Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e. unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management utilizes revenue per requisition data in order to assist with assessing various factors impacting the performance of the business, including pricing and trends impacting mix. Therefore, we believe that the change in this metric from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess such factors, which are relevant to assessing the revenue performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions ("DS") businesses, which represents the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Second Quarter Highlights Our total net revenues of $1.83 billion were down 6.4% from the prior year period. In DIS: Revenues of $1.76 billion decreased by 5.7% compared to the prior year period, driven by a decrease in organic volume (volume excluding the impact of acquisitions); partially offset by an increase in revenue per requisition and the impact of acquisitions. Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, decreased by 17.7% compared to the prior year period, with organic volume down approximately 18.2%, partially offset by volume associated with recent acquisitions of 0.5%. Organic volume was negatively impacted by a material decline in testing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with testing volumes in the base business (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing) down approximately 34% compared to the prior year period. Revenue per requisition increased by 15.3% compared to the prior year period driven, in large part, by reimbursement for COVID-19 molecular testing. DS revenues of $63 million decreased by 21.8% compared to the prior year period. Income from continuing operations attributable to Quest Diagnostics' stockholders was $185 million, or $1.36 per diluted share, in 2020, compared to $206 million, or $1.51 per diluted share, in the prior year period. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $602 million, compared to $596 million in the prior year period. 29 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing up to 130,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 200,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. Despite our increase in capacity, surging demand for COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests recently has increased faster than our capacity to perform the testing, which has impacted the time it takes for us to deliver test results to patients. We are continuing to invest in ways to increase our ability to bring more COVID-19 molecular testing to patients and speed the delivery of test results. However, global supply constraints have limited, and may continue to limit, our ability to do so. In the near future, we expect to have the capacity to perform approximately 150,000 molecular diagnostic tests per day. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. We have put preparedness plans in place at our facilities to maintain continuity of operations, while also taking steps to keep colleagues and customers healthy and safe. In line with recommendations to reduce l

--- Quarter 3 (filed 2020-10-23) ---
Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business ("DIS") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks ("IDNs"), health plans, employers and accountable care organizations ("ACOs"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up over 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Management utilizes requisition data to assist with assessing the growth of the business. Therefore, we believe that the change in the number of requisitions from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess our growth. Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e. unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management utilizes revenue per requisition data in order to assist with assessing various factors impacting the performance of the business, including pricing and trends impacting mix. Therefore, we believe that the change in this metric from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess such factors, which are relevant to assessing the revenue performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions ("DS") businesses, which represents the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Third Quarter Highlights Our total net revenues of $2.79 billion were up 42.5% from the prior year period. In DIS: Revenues of $2.71 billion increased by 44.3% compared to the prior year period, driven by demand for COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing, and, to a lesser extent, the impact of recent acquisitions, partially offset by a decline in testing volume in our base business (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing). Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, increased by 19.7% compared to the prior year period, with organic growth (which excludes the impact of recent acquisitions) and acquisitions contributing approximately 16.6% and 3.1%, respectively. Organic volume growth was driven by demand for COVID-19 molecular testing, partially 