 continue and other similar expressions. All statements other than statements of historical fact could be forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements in our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended September 30, 2020 and our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Except as required by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 24 Table of Contents Overview Visa is a global payments technology company that enables innovative, secure and reliable electronic payments across more than 200 countries and territories. We facilitate digital payments across a global network of consumers, merchants, financial institutions, businesses, strategic partners and government entities through innovative technologies. Our advanced transaction processing network, VisaNet, enables authorization, clearing and settlement of payment transactions and allows us to provide our financial institution and merchant clients a wide range of products, platforms and value added services. Financial overview. Our as-reported U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share are as follows: Three Months Ended December 31, 2020 2019 % Change (1) (in millions, except percentages and per share data) Net income, as reported $ 3,126 $ 3,272 (4) % Diluted earnings per share, as reported $ 1.42 $ 1.46 (3) % Non-GAAP net income (2) $ 3,125 $ 3,272 (4) % Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (2) $ 1.42 $ 1.46 (3) % (1) Figures in the table may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. (2) For a full reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial results, see tables in Non-GAAP financial results below. Coronavirus. COVID-19 continues to have an impact globally. While we have been actively monitoring the worldwide spread of COVID-19, the extent to which COVID-19 will ultimately impact our business remains difficult to predict. Our priority remains the safety of our employees, clients and the communities in which we live and operate. We are taking a measured approach in bringing our employees back in the office, with most of our employees currently working remotely. We continue to remain in close and regular contact with our employees, clients, partners and with governments globally to help them navigate these challenging times. Revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 were at varying stages of recovery. During the quarter, there was year-over-year growth in payments volume and processed transactions. While cross-border volume did improve during the quarter, it remains depressed as the majority of borders remain closed. Although we have taken measures to modify our business practices and reduce operating expenses, including scaling back hiring plans, restricting travel, lowering marketing spend and the use of external resources, the impact that COVID-19 will have on our business remains difficult to predict due to numerous uncertainties, including the transmissibility, severity and duration of the outbreak, the effectiveness of social distancing measures or actions that are voluntarily adopted by the public or required by governments or public health authorities, the development and availability of effective treatments or vaccines, and the impact to our employees and our operations, the business of our clients, supplier and business partners, and other factors identified in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30 2020, filed with the SEC on November 19, 2020. We will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the impact to our business. Highlights for the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Net revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2020 were $5.7 billion, and decreased 6% over the prior-year comparable period, driven by the year-over-year changes in cross-border volume, which were impacted by t

--- Quarter 5 (filed 2021-04-29) ---
ITEM 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This management s discussion and analysis provides a review of the results of operations, financial condition and the liquidity and capital resources of Visa Inc. and its subsidiaries ( Visa, we, us, our or the Company ) on a historical basis and outlines the factors that have affected recent earnings, as well as those factors that may affect future earnings. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 1 Financial Statements of this report. Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that relate to, among other things, the impact on our future financial position, results of operations and cash flows as a result of the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ); prospects, developments, strategies and growth of our business; anticipated expansion of our products in certain countries; industry developments; anticipated benefits of our acquisitions; expectations regarding litigation matters, investigations and proceedings; timing and amount of stock repurchases; sufficiency of sources of liquidity and funding; effectiveness of our risk management programs; and expectations regarding the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by words such as believes, estimates, expects, intends, may, projects, could, should, will, continue and other similar expressions. All statements other than statements of historical fact could be forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements in our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended September 30, 2020 and our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. Except as required by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 27 Table of Contents Overview Visa is a global payments technology company that enables innovative, secure and reliable electronic payments across more than 200 countries and territories. We facilitate digital payments across a global network of consumers, merchants, financial institutions, businesses, strategic partners and government entities through innovative technologies. Our advanced transaction processing network, VisaNet, enables authorization, clearing and settlement of payment transactions and allows us to provide our financial institution and merchant clients a wide range of products, platforms and value added services. Financial overview. Our as-reported U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share are as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Six Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change (1) 2021 2020 % Change (1) (in millions, except percentages and per share data) Net income, as reported $ 3,026 $ 3,084 (2) % $ 6,152 $ 6,356 (3) % Diluted earnings per share, as reported $ 1.38 $ 1.38 % $ 2.80 $ 2.85 (2) % Non-GAAP net income (2) $ 3,031 $ 3,098 (2) % $ 6,156 $ 6,370 (3) % Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (2) $ 1.38 $ 1.39 (1) % $ 2.80 $ 2.85 (2) % (1) Figures in the table may not recalculate exactly due to rounding. Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. (2) For a full reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial results, see tables in Non-GAAP financial results below. Coronavirus. COVID-19 continues to have an impact globally. While we have been actively monitoring the worldwide spread of COVID-19, the extent to which COVID-19 continues to impact our business remains difficult to predict. Our priority remains the safety of our employees, clients and the communities in which we live and operate. We are taking a measured approach in bringing our employees back in the office, with most of our employees currently working remotely. We continue to remain in close and regular contact with our employees, clients, partners and with governments globally to help them navigate these challenging times. Revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 were at varying stages of recovery. During the quarter, there was continued year-over-year growth in payments volume and processed transactions. Cross-border volume also continued to improve during the quarter, despite many borders remaining closed. Although we have taken measures to modify our business practices and reduce operating expenses, including scaling back hiring plans, restricting travel and the use of external resources, the impact that COVID-19 continues to have on our business remains difficult to predict due to numerous uncertainties, including the transmissibility, severity and duration of the outbreak, new variants of the virus, the effectiveness of social distancing measures or actions that are voluntarily adopted by the public or required by governments or public health authorities, the development, availability and rollout of effective treatments or vaccines, the timing of border openings, and the impact to our employees and our operations, the business of our clients,