{
  "blindId": "ANALYST-0047",
  "sector": "Health Care",
  "job1": "You are analyzing management's track record of delivering on commitments.\nYou will be given MD&A sections from sequential quarters for an anonymous company.\nDo NOT attempt to identify the company.\n\nCOMPANY: ANALYST-0047\nSECTOR: Health Care\n\nQUARTERLY MD&A DOCUMENTS (in chronological order):\n--- Quarter 1 (filed 2020-05-04) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers and accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up over 95% of our consolidated net revenues. 26 Table of Contents We assesses our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Management utilizes requisition data to assist with assessing the growth of the business. Therefore, we believe that the change in the number of requisitions from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess our growth. Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e. unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management utilizes revenue per requisition data in order to assist with assessing various factors impacting the performance of the business, including pricing and trends impacting mix. Therefore, we believe that the change in this metric from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess such factors, which are relevant to assessing the revenue performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represents the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. First Quarter Highlights Our total net revenues of $1.82 billion were down 3.7% from the prior year period. In DIS: Revenues of $1.74 billion decreased by 3.8% compared to the prior year period, driven by a decrease in organic volume (volume excluding the impact of acquisitions) and a decline in revenue per requisition, partially offset by the impact of recent acquisitions. Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, decreased by 2.4% compared to the prior year period, with organic volume down approximately 2.7% , partially offset by volume associated with recent acquisitions of 0.3% . Revenue per requisition decreased by 1.2% compared to the prior year period. DS revenues of $78 million decreased by 1.9% compared to the prior year period. Net income attributable to Quest Diagnostics' stockholders was $99 million , or $0.73 per diluted share, in 2020 , compared to $164 million , or $1.20 per diluted share, in the prior year period. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 , net cash provided by operating activities was $247 million , compared to $275 million in the prior year period. Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of testing more than 50,000 COVID-19 tests per day. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. We have also begun performing a blood-based COVID-19 antibody test. We currently have the capacity to perform approximately 150 thousand antibody tests per day. We have put preparedness plans in place at our facilities to maintain continuity of operations, while also taking steps to keep colleagues and customers healthy and safe. In line with recommendations to reduce large gatherings and increase social distancing, we have transitioned many office-based colleagues to a remote work environment. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volumes compared to the prior year period. Through February, year-to-date DIS revenues increased 4.2% compared to the prior year period with organic growth and acquisitions contributing approximately 3.7% and 0.5%, respectively. Year-to-date DIS volume through February increased 6.3% compared to the prior year period. Such growth included the benefit of an extra business day in 2020 and the impact of weather in the prior year period, each of which we estimate favorably impacted the comparison by 0.8%. However, in March 2020, we experienced, and we have continued to experience, a material decline in testing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the last two weeks of March, volumes declined in excess of 40% inclusive of COVID-19 testing, across all metro markets. In April, volume declines continued with the declines compared to the prior year period in the range of 50% to 27 Table of Contents 60%. Federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 have resulted in, among other things, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home or shelter-in-place policies, all of which have had, and we believe will likely continue to have, an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition, including continued declines in testing volumes. It is also possible that we will experience an adverse impact on cash collections as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe COVID-19 s adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be primarily driven by: the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic; the COVID-19 pandemic s impact on the U.S. healthcare system and the U.S. economy; and the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local governmental responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has moderated and the business and social distancing restrictions have eased, we may continue to experience similar adverse effects to our businesses, consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows resulting from a recessionary economic environment that may persist. In the longer term, given the many challenges that hospitals will face, we may have more opportunities to partner with hospitals to help achieve their laboratory strategies, and the COVID-19 pandemic may also be a further catalyst for consolidation in the laboratory testing industry. The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) In March 2020, \n\n--- Quarter 2 (filed 2020-07-24) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers and accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up over 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Management utilizes requisition data to assist with assessing the growth of the business. Therefore, we believe that the change in the number of requisitions from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess our growth. Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e. unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management utilizes revenue per requisition data in order to assist with assessing various factors impacting the performance of the business, including pricing and trends impacting mix. Therefore, we believe that the change in this metric from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess such factors, which are relevant to assessing the revenue performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represents the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Second Quarter Highlights Our total net revenues of $1.83 billion were down 6.4% from the prior year period. In DIS: Revenues of $1.76 billion decreased by 5.7% compared to the prior year period, driven by a decrease in organic volume (volume excluding the impact of acquisitions); partially offset by an increase in revenue per requisition and the impact of acquisitions. Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, decreased by 17.7% compared to the prior year period, with organic volume down approximately 18.2%, partially offset by volume associated with recent acquisitions of 0.5%. Organic volume was negatively impacted by a material decline in testing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with testing volumes in the base business (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing) down approximately 34% compared to the prior year period. Revenue per requisition increased by 15.3% compared to the prior year period driven, in large part, by reimbursement for COVID-19 molecular testing. DS revenues of $63 million decreased by 21.8% compared to the prior year period. Income from continuing operations attributable to Quest Diagnostics' stockholders was $185 million, or $1.36 per diluted share, in 2020, compared to $206 million, or $1.51 per diluted share, in the prior year period. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $602 million, compared to $596 million in the prior year period. 29 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing up to 130,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 200,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. Despite our increase in capacity, surging demand for COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests recently has increased faster than our capacity to perform the testing, which has impacted the time it takes for us to deliver test results to patients. We are continuing to invest in ways to increase our ability to bring more COVID-19 molecular testing to patients and speed the delivery of test results. However, global supply constraints have limited, and may continue to limit, our ability to do so. In the near future, we expect to have the capacity to perform approximately 150,000 molecular diagnostic tests per day. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. We have put preparedness plans in place at our facilities to maintain continuity of operations, while also taking steps to keep colleagues and customers healthy and safe. In line with recommendations to reduce large gatherings and increase social distancing, we have transitioned many office-based colleagues to a remote work environment. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volumes compared to the prior year period. However, in March and April 2020, we experienced a material decline in testing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the last two weeks of March, volumes declined in excess of 40% compared to the prior year period, inclusive of COVID-19 testing, which continued in April with volume declines in the range of 50 to 60% compared to the prior year period as government policies were implemented to reduce the transmission of COVID-19. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volumes (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing), as well as growing demand for COVID-19 testing services. The recovery in base testing volumes was more significant in the geographies where governmental policies designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 were eased more quickly than other geographies. Volumes in our base business (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing) for the second quarter of 2020 decreased approximately 34% compared to the prior year period, which was partially offset by COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing, as well as an increase in revenue per requisition driven in large part by reimbursement for COVID-19 molecular testing. DIS revenues were positively impacted in the period as a result of the April 2020 announcement by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that it would increase the reimbursement for certain COVID-19 molecular tests making use of high-throughput technologies developed by the private sector that allow for increased testing capacity, faster results, and more effective means of combatting the spread of the virus to $100 per test, effective April 14, 2020 through the duration of the COVID-19 national emergency. If the current public h\n\n--- Quarter 3 (filed 2020-10-23) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers and accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up over 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Management utilizes requisition data to assist with assessing the growth of the business. Therefore, we believe that the change in the number of requisitions from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess our growth. Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e. unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management utilizes revenue per requisition data in order to assist with assessing various factors impacting the performance of the business, including pricing and trends impacting mix. Therefore, we believe that the change in this metric from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess such factors, which are relevant to assessing the revenue performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represents the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Third Quarter Highlights Our total net revenues of $2.79 billion were up 42.5% from the prior year period. In DIS: Revenues of $2.71 billion increased by 44.3% compared to the prior year period, driven by demand for COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing, and, to a lesser extent, the impact of recent acquisitions, partially offset by a decline in testing volume in our base business (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing). Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, increased by 19.7% compared to the prior year period, with organic growth (which excludes the impact of recent acquisitions) and acquisitions contributing approximately 16.6% and 3.1%, respectively. Organic volume growth was driven by demand for COVID-19 molecular testing, partially offset by declines in testing volumes in the base business. Testing volumes in the base business were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and declined by 5% compared to the prior year period. Revenue per requisition increased by 20.9% compared to the prior year period driven, in large part, by COVID-19 molecular testing. DS revenues of $77 million decreased by 1.9% compared to the prior year period. Income from continuing operations attributable to Quest Diagnostics' stockholders was $568 million, or $4.14 per diluted share, in 2020, compared to $215 million, or $1.56 per diluted share, in the prior year period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $1,464 million, compared to $895 million in the prior year period. 30 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing more than 200,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 200,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. We have put preparedness plans in place at our facilities to maintain continuity of operations, while also taking steps to keep colleagues and customers healthy and safe. In line with recommendations to reduce large gatherings and increase social distancing, many of our office-based colleagues are working in a remote environment. We are evaluating the best way to bring them back into the office. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volumes compared to the prior year period. However, in March and April 2020, we experienced a material decline in testing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the last two weeks of March, volumes declined in excess of 40% compared to the prior year period, inclusive of COVID-19 testing, which continued in April with volume declines in the range of 50 to 60% compared to the prior year period as government policies were implemented to reduce the transmission of COVID-19. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volumes (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing), which continued in the third quarter of 2020. Additionally, beginning during the second quarter, we experienced growing demand for COVID-19 testing services and have expanded our capacity in order to satisfy such demand. Volumes in our base business for the second and third quarters of 2020 decreased approximately 34% and 5%, respectively, compared to the prior year periods. The decrease in base testing volumes was driven by federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 which have resulted in, among other things, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home policies, all of which have had, and we believe will continue to have, an impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows, including continued declines in base testing volumes. It is also possible that we will experience an impact on cash collections as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. During the second quarter of 2020, the decrease in base testing volumes was partially offset by COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing, including an increase in revenue per requisition driven in large part by COVID-19 molecular testing. During the third quarter of 2020, the decrease in base testing volumes was more than offset by the impact of the COVID-19 testing. In April 2020 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") announced that it would in\n\n--- Quarter 4 (filed 2021-04-23) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers, accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"), and direct contract entities (\"DCEs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up greater than 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e., unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management uses number of requisitions and revenue per requisition data to assist with assessing the growth and performance of the business, including understanding trends affecting number of requisitions, pricing and test mix. Therefore, we believe that information related to changes in these metrics from period to period are useful information for investors as it allows them to assess the performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represent the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we offer a variety of solutions for life insurers and healthcare organizations and clinicians. We are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry. In addition, we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. First Quarter Highlights Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (dollars in millions, except per share data) Net revenues $2,720 $1,822 DIS revenues $2,643 $1,744 Revenue per requisition change 20.5% (1.2)% Requisition volume change 25.6% (2.4)% Organic requisition volume change 21.6% (2.7)% DS revenues $77 $78 Net income attributable to Quest Diagnostics $469 $99 Diluted earnings per share $3.46 $0.73 Net cash provided by operating activities $731 $247 For further discussion of the year-over-year changes for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, see Results of Operations below. 21 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing approximately 300,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 350,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. During 2020 and the first quarter of 2021, our testing volume and revenues were materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volume compared to the prior year period. However, in March 2020, we experienced a material decline in testing volume due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volume (which excludes COVID-19 testing), which continued in the second half of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. For the first quarter of 2021, our base testing volume, excluding volume associated with recent acquisitions and recent agreements associated with our Professional Laboratory Services offerings, was 7.9% below our historical first quarter of 2019 levels. We estimate that the impact of weather negatively impacted the comparison by 1%. The decrease in base testing volume was driven by federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home policies, all of which have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows, including base testing volume. Beginning during the second quarter of 2020, we experienced growing demand for COVID-19 testing services and we expanded our capacity throughout 2020 in order to satisfy the demand, which has had a significant impact on our testing volumes. Since the fourth quarter of 2020, demand for COVID-19 testing has decreased reflecting an industry-wide trend. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2020, our net revenues associated with COVID-19 testing in the first quarter of 2021 declined by 27.9%. We expect demand for COVID-19 testing to continue to decline throughout 2021 as more people become vaccinated. Additionally, our revenue per requisition has been positively impacted by favorable mix, driven in large part by COVID-19 molecular testing. In April 2020 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") announced that it would increase the reimbursement for certain COVID-19 molecular tests making use of high-throughput technologies developed by the private sector that allow for increased testing capacity, faster results, and more effective means of combating the spread of the virus to $100 per test, effective April 14, 2020. Beginning January 1, 2021, Medicare changed the base reimbursement rate for COVID-19 diagnostic tests run on high-throughput technologies to $75 per test with an additional payment of $25 per test if the laboratory (1) completes the test in two calendar days or less and (2) completes the majority of its COVID-19 tests that use high throughput technology in two calendar days or less for all of its patients in the previous month. Certain healthcare insurers have now moved to a similar reimbursement model for COVID-19 molecular tests. We believe the COVID-19 pandemic s impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be primarily driven by: the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic; healthcare insurer, government, and client payer reimbursement rates for COVID-19 molecular testing; the COVID-19 pandemic s impact on the U.S. healthcare system and the U.S. economy; and the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local governmental responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. We may also be impacted by changes in the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic at different times in the various c\n\n--- Quarter 5 (filed 2021-07-23) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on an industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers, accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"), and direct contract entities (\"DCEs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up greater than 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e., unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management uses number of requisitions and revenue per requisition data to assist with assessing the growth and performance of the business, including understanding trends affecting number of requisitions, pricing and test mix. Therefore, we believe that information related to changes in these metrics from period to period are useful information for investors as it allows them to assess the performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represent the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we offer a variety of solutions for life insurers and healthcare organizations and clinicians. We are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry. In addition, we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Second Quarter Highlights Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 2020 (dollars in millions, except per share data) Net revenues $2,550 $1,827 DIS revenues $2,474 $1,764 Revenue per requisition change (3.6)% 15.3% Requisition volume change 45.2% (17.7)% Organic requisition volume change 40.1% (18.2)% DS revenues $76 $63 Net income attributable to Quest Diagnostics $631 $185 Diluted earnings per share $4.96 $1.36 Net cash provided by operating activities $460 $355 For further discussion of the year-over-year changes for the three months ended June 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2020, see Results of Operations below. 23 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) continues to impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing approximately 300,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 350,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. During 2020 and the first half of 2021, our testing volume and revenues were materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volume compared to the prior year period. However, in March 2020, we experienced a material decline in testing volume due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volume (which excludes COVID-19 testing), which continued in the second half of 2020 and the first half of 2021 driven by people returning to the healthcare system as well as contributions from new Professional Laboratory Services offerings. For the first and second quarters of 2021, our base testing volume, excluding volume associated with recent acquisitions, was 2.8% below and 1.9% above our historical first and second quarter of 2019 levels, respectively. Recent agreements associated with our Professional Laboratory Services offerings contributed 5.2% and 5.8% volume growth compared to 2019 for the first and second quarters of 2021, respectively. Unless there is a change in the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that there will be a continued return to healthcare throughout 2021 with, in some cases, patients pursuing care delayed during the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease in base testing volume was driven by federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home policies, all of which have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Beginning during the second quarter of 2020, we experienced growing demand for COVID-19 testing services and we expanded our capacity throughout 2020 in order to satisfy the demand, which has had a significant impact on our testing volumes. Since the fourth quarter of 2020, demand for COVID-19 testing has decreased reflecting an industry-wide trend. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2020, our net revenues associated with COVID-19 testing in the first and second quarters of 2021 declined by 27.9% and 55.7%, respectively. Given the significant progress of vaccinations in the U.S., we continue to expect a decline in demand for COVID-19 molecular testing in the second half of 2021. Additionally, our revenue per requisition has been positively impacted by COVID-19 molecular testing. In April 2020 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") announced that it would increase the reimbursement for certain COVID-19 molecular tests making use of high-throughput technologies developed by the private sector that allow for increased testing capacity, faster results, and more effective means of combating the spread of the virus to $100 per test, effective April 14, 2020. Beginning January 1, 2021, Medicare changed the base reimbursement rate for COVID-19 diagnostic tests run on high-throughput technologies to $75 per test with an additional payment of $25 per test if the laboratory (1) completes the test in two calendar days or less and (2) completes the majority of its COVID-19 tests that use high throughput technology in two calendar days or less for all of its patients in the previous month. Certain healthcare insurers have now moved to a similar reimbursement model for COVID-19 molecular tests. 24 Table of Contents We believe the COVID-19 pandemic s impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be primarily driven by: the severity an\n\n--- Quarter 6 (filed 2021-10-22) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on an industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers, accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"), and direct contract entities (\"DCEs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up greater than 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e., unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management uses number of requisitions and revenue per requisition data to assist with assessing the growth and performance of the business, including understanding trends affecting number of requisitions, pricing and test mix. Therefore, we believe that information related to changes in these metrics from period to period are useful information for investors as it allows them to assess the performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represent the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we offer a variety of solutions for life insurers and healthcare organizations and clinicians. We are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry. In addition, we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Third Quarter Highlights Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 2020 (dollars in millions, except per share data) Net revenues $2,774 $2,786 DIS revenues $2,703 $2,709 Revenue per requisition change (5.4)% 20.9% Requisition volume change 5.3% 19.7% Organic requisition volume change 3.2% 16.6% DS revenues $71 $77 Net income attributable to Quest Diagnostics $505 $568 Diluted earnings per share $4.02 $4.14 Net cash provided by operating activities $561 $862 For further discussion of the year-over-year changes for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2020, see Results of Operations below. 25 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) continues to impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. During 2020 and 2021, our testing volume and revenues were materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Beginning in March 2020, we experienced a material decline in base testing volume (which excludes COVID-19 testing) due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease in base testing volume was driven by federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home policies, all of which have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volume, which continued in 2021. The recovery trend stalled somewhat in August 2021, but resumed in September 2021. The recovery has been driven by people returning to the healthcare system as well as contributions from new Professional Laboratory Services offerings. For the first, second and third quarters of 2021, our base testing volume, excluding volume associated with recent acquisitions, was 2.8% below, 1.9% above and 3.8% above our historical first, second and third quarter of 2019 levels, respectively. Recent agreements associated with our Professional Laboratory Services offerings contributed 5.2%, 5.8% and 5.2% volume growth compared to 2019 for the first, second and third quarters of 2021, respectively. Unless there is a change in the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that there will be a continued return to healthcare with, in some cases, patients pursuing care delayed during the COVID-19 pandemic. Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, we experienced growing demand for COVID-19 testing services and we expanded our capacity throughout 2020 in order to satisfy the demand, which has had a significant impact on our testing volumes. During 2021, demand for our COVID-19 testing has generally fluctuated in line with changes in the prevalence of the virus and related variants. We expect demand to trend down through the remainder of 2021. Additionally, our revenue per requisition has been positively impacted by COVID-19 molecular testing. In April 2020 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") announced that it would increase the reimbursement for certain COVID-19 molecular tests making use of high-throughput technologies developed by the private sector that allow for increased testing capacity, faster results, and more effective means of combating the spread of the virus to $100 per test, effective April 14, 2020. Beginning January 1, 2021, Medicare changed the base reimbursement rate for COVID-19 diagnostic tests run on high-throughput technologies to $75 per test with an additional payment of $25 per test if the laboratory (1) completes the test in two calendar days or less and (2) completes the majority of its COVID-19 tests that use high throughput technology in two calendar days or less for all of its patients in the previous month. Certain healthcare insurers have now moved to a similar reimbursement model for COVID-19 molecular tests. We believe the COVID-19 pandemic s impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be primarily driven by: the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic; healthcare insurer, government, and client payer reimbursement rates for COVID-19 molecular testing; the COVID-19 pandemic s impact on the U.S. healthcare system and the U.S. economy; and the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local governmental responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the impact of vaccination efforts. We may also be impacted by changes in the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic at different times in the various cities and regions where we operate and offer services\n\nTASK:\n1. Identify every SPECIFIC, TRACKABLE commitment management made in earlier\n   quarters. Examples: revenue growth targets, margin expansion plans, product\n   launch timelines, cost reduction goals, market share claims.\n\n2. For each commitment, check whether subsequent quarters' documents confirm\n   delivery, partial delivery, or failure. Only count commitments where a\n   later document provides evidence either way.\n\n3. Compute: commitments_delivered / total_trackable_commitments\n\n4. Flag any pattern of language shifts: specific guidance becoming vague,\n   confident statements becoming hedged, or topics being dropped entirely.\n\nReturn ONLY valid JSON (no markdown, no code fences):\n{\n  \"total_commitments_tracked\": X,\n  \"commitments_delivered\": X,\n  \"commitments_missed\": X,\n  \"credibility_score\": X.XX,\n  \"language_shifts\": [\n    {\"quarter\": \"QX\", \"shift\": \"description of linguistic change\"}\n  ],\n  \"red_flags\": [\"flag1\", \"flag2\"]\n}",
  "job2": "You are analyzing changes in a company's SEC risk factor disclosures.\nDo NOT attempt to identify the company.\n\nCOMPANY: ANALYST-0047\nSECTOR: Health Care\n\nCURRENT 10-K RISK FACTORS (Item 1A, filed 2021-02-22):\nItem 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. Our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. This Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. See Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results on page 42 . RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The U.S. healthcare system is evolving and medical laboratory testing market fundamentals are changing, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. The U.S. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to the ACA. The ACA established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. The ACA provided for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The ACA also permits the establishment of ACOs. Certain aspects of the ACA have been repealed, delayed or modified. The scope and timing of any further legislation to repeal, amend, replace, or reform the rest of the ACA is uncertain, but if such legislation were to become law, it could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare system. In addition, uncertainty regarding the status of the ACA prior to any such repeal, amendment, replacement or reform could create uncertainty generally in the healthcare market. Several federal courts have issued determinations that portions of the ACA are unconstitutional; those rulings are net yet final. 32 Table of Contents Significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading The Clinical Testing Industry, beginning on page 14. For example, value-based reimbursement is increasing ( e.g. , UnitedHealthcare's Preferred Lab Network); CMS has set goals for value-based reimbursement to be achieved. Patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased responsibility for payment for, their healthcare. Healthcare industry participants are evolving and consolidating. Healthcare services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers ( e.g ., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues ( e.g ., retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies ( e.g ., telemedicine, digital pathology). Utilization of the healthcare system is being influenced by several factors and may result in a decline in the demand for diagnostic information services. In addition, we believe that clinical testing market fundamentals are changing. We believe that PAMA-driven reimbursement pressure is negatively impacting access to care and hurting the clinical testing industry, and remains a catalyst for structural change in the market. We also believe that health plans increasingly are focusing on driving better value in laboratory testing services. We also believe that ongoing consumerization in healthcare, with increased cost being borne by consumers, is sharpening focus on price disparities. We expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. The clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. We primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. We also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. Hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). In addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. Hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians and encourage the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. As a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community clinicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. In addition, hospitals that own physician practices may encourage or require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. In recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, increasing the percentage of physician practices owned by hospitals. Increased hospital ownership of physician practices may enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. The formation of ACOs, DCEs and IDNs, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services. In addition, new players have recently started to provide clinical lab testing services ( e.g ., employers; government agencies). The diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. Competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. Digital pathology, still in an emerging state, is an example of this. Competitors also may compete on the basis of new service offerings. Competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. We face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. One example of this is increased use of prior authorization requirements. We expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. Pursuant to PAMA, reimbursement rates for many clinical laboratory tests provided under Medicare were reduced in 2018, 2019 and 2020. PAMA calls for further revision of the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule for years after 2020, based on future surveys of market rates; reimbursement rate reduction from 2022-24 is capped by PAMA at 15% annually. The LAB Act provides an opportunity for reforms to PAMA by delaying PAMA's next data collection and reporting period until January 1, 2021 and by ordering a study to determine ways to improve future collection of more representative market rate data under PAMA. The CARES Act, adopted in early 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, suspended the PAMA price cuts that had been scheduled for 2021 and delayed PAMA's next data collection and reporting period until January 1, 2022. 33 Table of Contents In addition, CMS has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. We also provide physician services that are reimbursed by Medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. The ACA includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. In addition, over the last several years, the federal government has expanded its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries, called Medicare Advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. There has been growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. States have mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. In addition, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions. From time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. Congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives. These initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. Health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. We face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. Examples include increased use of prior authorization requirements and increased denial of coverage for services. Since the passage of ACA, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. We expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services. ACOs, DCEs and IDNs also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. The healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. These health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. Some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and requiring preauthorization of certain testing. There are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. The increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. Government payers and third parties, including health plans, may establish reimbursement levels that do not properly recognize the value of new and innovative solutions. Government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer. In response to requests from payers to have a strategy to report a single or at most a few codes to describe procedures used to perform molecular and toxicology testing, the American Medical Association CPT Editorial Panel has established and replaced billing codes used to report those procedures. The adoption of these revised codes has resulted in limited coverage decisions on certain occasions, new requirements for documentation to facilitate payment from certain payers and increased payment denials. While some payers have adopted the new payment methods, others have not yet modified their systems and ask that laboratories continue to report their services using the previous reporting strategies, when those codes still exist. These steps may discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer. Failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. 34 Table of Contents The diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our solutions or operate our business or increase our costs. In addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. Our success in continuing to introduce new solutions, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. We may be unable to develop or introduce new solutions or services. Other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be performing, that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. We also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. If we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new solutions, technology and services to expand our advanced testing capabilities, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition. Failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the appropriate standard of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. The provision of diagnostic information services involves certain inherent risks. The services that we provide are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. Negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. We may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. We are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. RISKS RELATED TO CHANGE IN PUBLIC POLICY AND THE REGULATORY AND LEGAL ENVIRONMENT We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. Our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. While we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the FDA; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. 35 Table of Contents These laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected. We regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. We also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. The federal and state governments continue aggressive enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantial funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. In addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; increases to our administrative, billing or other operating costs; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreases to the amount of reimbursement related to diagnostic information services performed; adverse affects to important business relationships with third parties; decreased demand for our services; and/or injury to our reputation. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. Such changes also could require us to modify our business objectives. Our b\n\nPRIOR YEAR 10-K RISK FACTORS (Item 1A, filed 2020-02-20):\nItem 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. The risks below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. Our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. This Report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. See Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results on page 37 . 28 Table of Contents The U.S. healthcare system is evolving and medical laboratory testing market fundamentals are changing, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. The U.S. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to the ACA. The ACA established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. The ACA provided for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The ACA also permits the establishment of ACOs. Certain aspects of the ACA have been repealed, delayed or modified. The scope and timing of any further legislation to repeal, amend, replace, or reform the rest of the ACA is uncertain, but if such legislation were to become law, it could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare system. In addition, uncertainty regarding the status of the ACA prior to any such repeal, amendment, replacement or reform could create uncertainty generally in the healthcare market. Several federal courts have recently issued determinations that portions of the ACA are unconstitutional; those rulings are net yet final. Uncertainty about court rulings regarding the ACA could add to uncertainty in the healthcare market. Significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading The Clinical Testing Industry , beginning on page 13 . For example, value-based reimbursement is increasing ( e.g ., UnitedHealthcare's Preferred Lab Network); CMS has set goals for value-based reimbursement to be achieved. Patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased responsibility for payment for, their healthcare. Healthcare industry participants are evolving and consolidating. Healthcare services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers ( e.g ., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues ( e.g. , retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies ( e.g. , telemedicine, digital pathology). Utilization of the healthcare system is being influenced by several factors and may result in a decline in the demand for diagnostic information services. In addition, we believe that clinical testing market fundamentals are changing. We believe that PAMA-driven reimbursement pressure is negatively impacting access to care and hurting the clinical testing industry, and remains a catalyst for structural change in the market. We also believe that our expanded health plan network access and increased health plan focus on driving better value in laboratory testing services will reduce variation in spending on these services. We also believe that ongoing consumerization in healthcare, with increased cost being borne by consumers, is sharpening focus on price disparities. We expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. The clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. We primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. We also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. Hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). In addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. Hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians and encourage the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. As a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community clinicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. In addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. In recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, increasing the percentage of physician practices owned by hospitals. Increased hospital ownership of physician practices may enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. The formation of ACOs and IDNs, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services. The diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. Competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. Digital pathology, still in an emerging state, is an example of this. Competitors also may compete on the basis of new service offerings. Competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. 29 Table of Contents Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. We face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. One example of this is increased use of prior authorization requirements. We expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. Pursuant to PAMA, CMS promulgated revised reimbursement rate schedules for 2018 - 2020 for clinical laboratory testing services provided under Medicare. Reimbursement rates for many clinical laboratory tests were reduced in 2018 and 2019 and are scheduled to be reduced again by approximately 10% in 2020 (rates, and reductions, vary by test). PAMA calls for further revision of the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule for years after 2020, based on future surveys of market rates; reimbursement rate reduction from 2021-23 is capped by PAMA at 15% annually. In late 2019, the LAB Act became law. The LAB Act provides an opportunity for reforms to PAMA by delaying PAMA's next data collection and reporting period until January 1, 2021 and by ordering a study to determine ways to improve future collection of more representative market rate data under PAMA. In addition, CMS has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. We also provide physician services that are reimbursed by Medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. Medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. The ACA includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. In addition, over the last several years, the federal government has expanded its contracts with private health insurance plans for Medicare beneficiaries, called Medicare Advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. There has been growth of health insurance plans offering Medicare Advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. States have mandated that Medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. In addition, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions. From time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. Congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives. These initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. Health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. We face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. Examples include increased use of prior authorization requirements and increased denial of coverage for services. Since the passage of ACA, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. We expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services. ACOs and IDNs also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. The healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. These health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. Some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and requiring preauthorization of certain testing. There are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. The increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. Government payers and third parties, including health plans, may not recognize the value of, or compensate or reimburse us for, new and innovative solutions. 30 Table of Contents Government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer. In response to requests from payers to have a strategy to report a single or at most a few codes to describe procedures used to perform molecular and toxicology testing, the American Medical Association CPT Editorial Panel has established and replaced billing codes used to report those procedures. The adoption of these revised codes has resulted in limited coverage decisions on certain occasions, new requirements for documentation to facilitate payment from certain payers and increased payment denials. While some payers have adopted the new payment methods, others have not yet modified their systems and ask that laboratories continue to report their services using the previous reporting strategies, when those codes still exist. These steps may discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer. Our business operations and reputation may be materially impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. In our business, we collect, generate, process or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. If we do use or not adequately safeguard that information in compliance with applicable requirements under federal, state and international laws, or if it were disclosed to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be materially impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. In the event of a data security breach, we may be subject to notification obligations, litigation and governmental investigation or sanctions, and may suffer reputational damage, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We are subject to laws and regulations regarding protecting the security and privacy of certain healthcare and personal information, including: (a) the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the regulations thereunder, which establish (i) a complex regulatory framework including requirements for safeguarding protected health information and (ii) comprehensive federal standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information; (b) state laws, including the California Consumer Privacy Act; and (c) the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation. Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. It is important that we continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of steps taken by government payers and health insurers to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. Business development activities are inherently risky and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult. We plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing arrangements, investments and alliances. However, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. Moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. The success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. Further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. Acquisitions are not all the same ( e.g. , asset acquisitions differ from acquisitions of equity interests); different acquisitions offer different risks. Acquisitions may involve the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. Integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of assets or businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired businesses, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. The process of combining acquisitions may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our Company has historically provided; 31 Table of Contents diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our Company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. If we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. Even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other assets or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. We are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. Our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the United States (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. While we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the FDA; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. These laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. We may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important b\n\nTASK:\n1. Identify NEW risk factors that appear in the current filing but were\n   NOT present in the prior year. Quote the key phrase.\n\n2. Identify risk factors where LANGUAGE ESCALATED \u2014 e.g., \"may face\" became\n   \"are experiencing,\" \"could impact\" became \"has materially impacted.\"\n   Quote both versions.\n\n3. Identify risk factors that DISAPPEARED from the prior year.\n\n4. Count total risk factors in each year.\n\nReturn ONLY valid JSON (no markdown, no code fences):\n{\n  \"current_risk_count\": X,\n  \"prior_risk_count\": X,\n  \"new_risks\": [\n    {\"risk\": \"description\", \"key_phrase\": \"quoted text\", \"severity\": \"high/medium/low\"}\n  ],\n  \"escalated_risks\": [\n    {\"risk\": \"description\", \"prior_language\": \"quoted\", \"current_language\": \"quoted\"}\n  ],\n  \"disappeared_risks\": [\n    {\"risk\": \"description\", \"likely_reason\": \"resolved/materialized/unclear\"}\n  ],\n  \"overall_trajectory\": \"improving/stable/deteriorating\"\n}",
  "job3": null,
  "job4": "You are analyzing how management's communication style has changed over\nrecent quarters. Do NOT attempt to identify the company.\n\nCOMPANY: ANALYST-0047\n\nQUARTERLY MD&A DOCUMENTS (chronological):\n--- Quarter 1 (filed 2020-05-04) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers and accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up over 95% of our consolidated net revenues. 26 Table of Contents We assesses our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Management utilizes requisition data to assist with assessing the growth of the business. Therefore, we believe that the change in the number of requisitions from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess our growth. Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e. unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management utilizes revenue per requisition data in order to assist with assessing various factors impacting the performance of the business, including pricing and trends impacting mix. Therefore, we believe that the change in this metric from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess such factors, which are relevant to assessing the revenue performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represents the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. First Quarter Highlights Our total net revenues of $1.82 billion were down 3.7% from the prior year period. In DIS: Revenues of $1.74 billion decreased by 3.8% compared to the prior year period, driven by a decrease in organic volume (volume excluding the impact of acquisitions) and a decline in revenue per requisition, partially offset by the impact of recent acquisitions. Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, decreased by 2.4% compared to the prior year period, with organic volume down approximately 2.7% , partially offset by volume associated with recent acquisitions of 0.3% . Revenue per requisition decreased by 1.2% compared to the prior year period. DS revenues of $78 million decreased by 1.9% compared to the prior year period. Net income attributable to Quest Diagnostics' stockholders was $99 million , or $0.73 per diluted share, in 2020 , compared to $164 million , or $1.20 per diluted share, in the prior year period. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 , net cash provided by operating activities was $247 million , compared to $275 million in the prior year period. Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of testing more than 50,000 COVID-19 tests per day. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. We have also begun performing a blood-based COVID-19 antibody test. We currently have the capacity to perform approximately 150 thousand antibody tests per day. We have put preparedness plans in place at our facilities to maintain continuity of operations, while also taking steps to keep colleagues and customers healthy and safe. In line with recommendations to reduce large gatherings and increase social distancing, we have transitioned many office-based colleagues to a remote work environment. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volumes compared to the prior year period. Through February, year-to-date DIS revenues increased 4.2% compared to the prior year period with organic growth and acquisitions contributing approximately 3.7% and 0.5%, respectively. Year-to-date DIS volume through February increased 6.3% compared to the prior year period. Such growth included the benefit of an extra business day in 2020 and the impact of weather in the prior year period, each of which we estimate favorably impacted the comparison by 0.8%. However, in March 2020, we experienced, and we have continued to experience, a material decline in testing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the last two weeks of March, volumes declined in excess of 40% inclusive of COVID-19 testing, acr\n\n--- Quarter 2 (filed 2020-07-24) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers and accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up over 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Management utilizes requisition data to assist with assessing the growth of the business. Therefore, we believe that the change in the number of requisitions from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess our growth. Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e. unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management utilizes revenue per requisition data in order to assist with assessing various factors impacting the performance of the business, including pricing and trends impacting mix. Therefore, we believe that the change in this metric from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess such factors, which are relevant to assessing the revenue performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represents the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Second Quarter Highlights Our total net revenues of $1.83 billion were down 6.4% from the prior year period. In DIS: Revenues of $1.76 billion decreased by 5.7% compared to the prior year period, driven by a decrease in organic volume (volume excluding the impact of acquisitions); partially offset by an increase in revenue per requisition and the impact of acquisitions. Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, decreased by 17.7% compared to the prior year period, with organic volume down approximately 18.2%, partially offset by volume associated with recent acquisitions of 0.5%. Organic volume was negatively impacted by a material decline in testing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with testing volumes in the base business (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing) down approximately 34% compared to the prior year period. Revenue per requisition increased by 15.3% compared to the prior year period driven, in large part, by reimbursement for COVID-19 molecular testing. DS revenues of $63 million decreased by 21.8% compared to the prior year period. Income from continuing operations attributable to Quest Diagnostics' stockholders was $185 million, or $1.36 per diluted share, in 2020, compared to $206 million, or $1.51 per diluted share, in the prior year period. For the six months ended June 30, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $602 million, compared to $596 million in the prior year period. 29 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing up to 130,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 200,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. Despite our increase in capacity, surging demand for COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests recently has increased faster than our capacity to perform the testing, which has impacted the time it takes for us to deliver test results to patients. We are continuing to invest in ways to increase our ability to bring more COVID-19 molecular testing to patients and speed the delivery of test results. However, global supply constraints have limited, and may continue to limit, our ability to do so. In the near future, we expect to have the capacity to perform approximately 150,000 molecular diagnostic tests per day. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. We have put preparedness plans in place at our facilities to maintain continuity of operations, while also taking steps to keep colleagues and customers healthy and safe. In line with recommendations to reduce l\n\n--- Quarter 3 (filed 2020-10-23) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers and accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up over 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Management utilizes requisition data to assist with assessing the growth of the business. Therefore, we believe that the change in the number of requisitions from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess our growth. Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e. unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management utilizes revenue per requisition data in order to assist with assessing various factors impacting the performance of the business, including pricing and trends impacting mix. Therefore, we believe that the change in this metric from period to period is useful information for investors as it allows them to assess such factors, which are relevant to assessing the revenue performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represents the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry and we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Third Quarter Highlights Our total net revenues of $2.79 billion were up 42.5% from the prior year period. In DIS: Revenues of $2.71 billion increased by 44.3% compared to the prior year period, driven by demand for COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing, and, to a lesser extent, the impact of recent acquisitions, partially offset by a decline in testing volume in our base business (which excludes COVID-19 molecular and antibody testing). Volume, measured by the number of requisitions, increased by 19.7% compared to the prior year period, with organic growth (which excludes the impact of recent acquisitions) and acquisitions contributing approximately 16.6% and 3.1%, respectively. Organic volume growth was driven by demand for COVID-19 molecular testing, partially offset by declines in testing volumes in the base business. Testing volumes in the base business were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and declined by 5% compared to the prior year period. Revenue per requisition increased by 20.9% compared to the prior year period driven, in large part, by COVID-19 molecular testing. DS revenues of $77 million decreased by 1.9% compared to the prior year period. Income from continuing operations attributable to Quest Diagnostics' stockholders was $568 million, or $4.14 per diluted share, in 2020, compared to $215 million, or $1.56 per diluted share, in the prior year period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $1,464 million, compared to $895 million in the prior year period. 30 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing more than 200,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 200,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. We have put preparedness plans in place at our facilities to maintain continuity of operations, while also taking steps to keep colleagues and customers healthy and safe. In line with recommendations to reduce large gatherings and increase social distancing, many of our office-based colleagues are working in a remote environment. We are evaluating the best way to bring them back into the office. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volumes compared to the prior year period. However, in March and April 2020, we experienced a material decline in testing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the last two weeks of March, volumes declined in excess of 40% compared \n\n--- Quarter 4 (filed 2021-04-23) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on the industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers, accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"), and direct contract entities (\"DCEs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up greater than 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e., unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management uses number of requisitions and revenue per requisition data to assist with assessing the growth and performance of the business, including understanding trends affecting number of requisitions, pricing and test mix. Therefore, we believe that information related to changes in these metrics from period to period are useful information for investors as it allows them to assess the performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represent the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we offer a variety of solutions for life insurers and healthcare organizations and clinicians. We are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry. In addition, we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. First Quarter Highlights Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (dollars in millions, except per share data) Net revenues $2,720 $1,822 DIS revenues $2,643 $1,744 Revenue per requisition change 20.5% (1.2)% Requisition volume change 25.6% (2.4)% Organic requisition volume change 21.6% (2.7)% DS revenues $77 $78 Net income attributable to Quest Diagnostics $469 $99 Diluted earnings per share $3.46 $0.73 Net cash provided by operating activities $731 $247 For further discussion of the year-over-year changes for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, see Results of Operations below. 21 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) continues to spread and severely impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing approximately 300,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 350,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. During 2020 and the first quarter of 2021, our testing volume and revenues were materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volume compared to the prior year period. However, in March 2020, we experienced a material decline in testing volume due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volume (which excludes COVID-19 testing), which continued in the second half of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. For the first quarter of 2021, our base testing volume, excluding volume associated with recent acquisitions and recent agreements associated with our Professional Laboratory Services offerings, was 7.9% below our historical first quarter of 2019 levels. We estimate that the impact of weather negatively impacted the comparison by 1%. The decrease in base testing volume was driven by federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home policies, all of which have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows, including base testing volume. Beginning during the second quarter of 2020, we experienced growing demand for COVID-19 testing services and we expanded our capacity throughout 2020 in order to satisfy the demand, which has had a significant impact on our testing volumes. Since the fourth quarter of 2020, demand for COV\n\n--- Quarter 5 (filed 2021-07-23) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on an industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers, accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"), and direct contract entities (\"DCEs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up greater than 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e., unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management uses number of requisitions and revenue per requisition data to assist with assessing the growth and performance of the business, including understanding trends affecting number of requisitions, pricing and test mix. Therefore, we believe that information related to changes in these metrics from period to period are useful information for investors as it allows them to assess the performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represent the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we offer a variety of solutions for life insurers and healthcare organizations and clinicians. We are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry. In addition, we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Second Quarter Highlights Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 2020 (dollars in millions, except per share data) Net revenues $2,550 $1,827 DIS revenues $2,474 $1,764 Revenue per requisition change (3.6)% 15.3% Requisition volume change 45.2% (17.7)% Organic requisition volume change 40.1% (18.2)% DS revenues $76 $63 Net income attributable to Quest Diagnostics $631 $185 Diluted earnings per share $4.96 $1.36 Net cash provided by operating activities $460 $355 For further discussion of the year-over-year changes for the three months ended June 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2020, see Results of Operations below. 23 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) continues to impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country and are currently capable of performing approximately 300,000 COVID-19 molecular diagnostic tests per day to aid in the diagnosis of COVID-19 and approximately 350,000 COVID-19 antibody tests per day to aid in the detection of immune response. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. During 2020 and the first half of 2021, our testing volume and revenues were materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. During January and February 2020, we experienced growth in DIS revenues and volume compared to the prior year period. However, in March 2020, we experienced a material decline in testing volume due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volume (which excludes COVID-19 testing), which continued in the second half of 2020 and the first half of 2021 driven by people returning to the healthcare system as well as contributions from new Professional Laboratory Services offerings. For the first and second quarters of 2021, our base testing volume, excluding volume associated with recent acquisitions, was 2.8% below and 1.9% above our historical first and second quarter of 2019 levels, respectively. Recent agreements associated with our Professional Laboratory Services offerings contributed 5.2% and 5.8% volume growth compared to 2019 for the first and second quarters of 2021, respectively. Unless there is a change in the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that there will be a continued return to healthcare throughout 2021 with, in some cases, patients pursuing care delayed during the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease in base testing volume was driven by federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home policies, all of which have had, and m\n\n--- Quarter 6 (filed 2021-10-22) ---\nItem 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our Company Diagnostic Information Services Quest Diagnostics empowers people to take action to improve health outcomes. We use our extensive database of clinical lab results to derive diagnostic insights that reveal new avenues to identify and treat disease, inspire healthy behaviors and improve healthcare management. Our diagnostic information services business (\"DIS\") provides information and insights based on an industry-leading menu of routine, non-routine and advanced clinical testing and anatomic pathology testing, and other diagnostic information services. We provide services to a broad range of customers, including patients, clinicians, hospitals, independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), health plans, employers, accountable care organizations (\"ACOs\"), and direct contract entities (\"DCEs\"). We offer the broadest access in the United States to diagnostic information services through our nationwide network of laboratories, patient service centers and phlebotomists in physician offices and our connectivity resources, including call centers and mobile paramedics, nurses and other health and wellness professionals. We are the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. We provide interpretive consultation with one of the largest medical and scientific staffs in the industry. Our DIS business makes up greater than 95% of our consolidated net revenues. We assess our revenue performance for the DIS business based upon, among other factors, volume (measured by test requisitions) and revenue per requisition. Each requisition accompanies patient specimens, indicating the test(s) to be performed and the party to be billed for the test(s). Revenue per requisition is impacted by various factors, including, among other items, the impact of fee schedule changes (i.e., unit price), test mix, payer mix, and the number of tests per requisition. Management uses number of requisitions and revenue per requisition data to assist with assessing the growth and performance of the business, including understanding trends affecting number of requisitions, pricing and test mix. Therefore, we believe that information related to changes in these metrics from period to period are useful information for investors as it allows them to assess the performance of the business. Diagnostic Solutions In our Diagnostic Solutions (\"DS\") businesses, which represent the balance of our consolidated net revenues, we offer a variety of solutions for life insurers and healthcare organizations and clinicians. We are the leading provider of risk assessment services for the life insurance industry. In addition, we offer healthcare organizations and clinicians robust information technology solutions. Third Quarter Highlights Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 2020 (dollars in millions, except per share data) Net revenues $2,774 $2,786 DIS revenues $2,703 $2,709 Revenue per requisition change (5.4)% 20.9% Requisition volume change 5.3% 19.7% Organic requisition volume change 3.2% 16.6% DS revenues $71 $77 Net income attributable to Quest Diagnostics $505 $568 Diluted earnings per share $4.02 $4.14 Net cash provided by operating activities $561 $862 For further discussion of the year-over-year changes for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2020, see Results of Operations below. 25 Table of Contents Impact of COVID - 19 As a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) continues to impact the economy of the United States and other countries around the world, we are committed to being a part of the coordinated public and private sector response to this unprecedented challenge. We have made substantial investments to expand the amount of COVID-19 testing available to the country. We have been effectively managing challenges in the global supply chain; and, at this point, we have sufficient supplies to conduct our business. During 2020 and 2021, our testing volume and revenues were materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Beginning in March 2020, we experienced a material decline in base testing volume (which excludes COVID-19 testing) due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease in base testing volume was driven by federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, a significant reduction in physician office visits, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, customers closing or severely curtailing their operations (voluntarily or in response to government orders), and the adoption of work-from-home policies, all of which have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. During May and June 2020, we began to experience a recovery in base testing volume, which continued in 2021. The recovery trend stalled somewhat in August 2021, but resumed in September 2021. The recovery has been driven by people returning to the healthcare system as well as contributions from new Professional Laboratory Services offerings. For the first, second and third quarters of 2021, our base testing volume, excluding volume associated with recent acquisitions, was 2.8% below, 1.9% above and 3.8% above our historical first, second and third quarter of 2019 levels, respectively. Recent agreements associated with our Professional Laboratory Services offerings contributed 5.2%, 5.8% and 5.2% volume growth compared to 2019 for the first, second and third quarters of 2021, respectively. Unless there is a change in the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that there will be a continued return to healthcare with, in some cases, patients pursuing care delayed during the COVID-19 pandemic. Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, we experienced growing demand for COVID-19 testing services and we expanded our capacity throughout 2020 in order to satisfy the demand, which has ha\n\nTASK \u2014 focus ONLY on linguistic patterns, not financial content:\n\n1. GUIDANCE SPECIFICITY: Is management's forward-looking language becoming\n   more specific or more vague over time?\n\n2. HEDGING FREQUENCY: Count hedging language (\"subject to,\" \"depending on,\"\n   \"uncertain,\" \"cautiously\") per quarter. Is the frequency increasing?\n\n3. TOPIC AVOIDANCE: Are there topics discussed in earlier quarters that\n   management stops mentioning?\n\n4. CONFIDENCE MARKERS: Track phrases indicating confidence (\"clearly,\"\n   \"definitely,\" \"strong momentum\") vs uncertainty (\"challenging environment,\"\n   \"headwinds,\" \"transitional period\"). Which direction is the trend?\n\nReturn ONLY valid JSON (no markdown, no code fences):\n{\n  \"guidance_trend\": \"more_specific/stable/more_vague\",\n  \"hedging_trend\": \"decreasing/stable/increasing\",\n  \"topics_dropped\": [\"topic1\", \"topic2\"],\n  \"confidence_trend\": \"increasing/stable/decreasing\",\n  \"quarters_analyzed\": X,\n  \"overall_communication_trajectory\": \"improving/stable/deteriorating\",\n  \"notable_shifts\": [\n    {\"quarter\": \"QX\", \"observation\": \"description\"}\n  ]\n}",
  "quantContext": "Short interest days-to-cover: 2.92\nInsider Form 4 filings (12mo): 44",
  "available_jobs": 3
}